Proper Vermilion Sidewinder

medium

# Potential Issue in `withdrawShutdownBalance` can allow users receive more than their fair share at the expense of others

## Summary
The `withdrawShutdownBalance` function in the PrizePool contract updates the `_withdrawalObservations` mapping for the caller (`msg.sender`) even if the `balance` is zero. This could allow a user to "skip ahead" in the withdrawal observations without actually withdrawing any tokens, which may have unintended soome edge case exploits.

## Vulnerability Detail
Look at the code:
```solidity
function withdrawShutdownBalance(address _vault, address _recipient) external returns (uint256) {
    if (!isShutdown()) {
      revert PrizePoolNotShutdown();
    }
    uint256 balance = shutdownBalanceOf(_vault, msg.sender);
    _withdrawalObservations[_vault][msg.sender] = _totalAccumulator.newestObservation();
    if (balance > 0) {
      prizeToken.safeTransfer(_recipient, balance);
      _totalWithdrawn += uint128(balance);
    }
    return balance;
  }
```
The issue is that the function updates the `_withdrawalObservations` mapping for the caller (`msg.sender`) even if the `balance` is zero.

This means that if a user calls `withdrawShutdownBalance` with a vault and recipient where their balance is zero, their `_withdrawalObservations` will still be updated to the newest observation, even though no tokens were actually withdrawn.

If a user calls `withdrawShutdownBalance` with a zero balance, their `_withdrawalObservations` will be updated to the newest observation. This means that ifthey later have a non-zero balance to withdraw, the calculation for their share of the shutdown balance will be based on the newest observation, potentially allowing them to withdraw more than they should be entitled to.

Let's consider a scenario like this:

- User A calls `withdrawShutdownBalance` with zero balance.
- `_withdrawalObservations` for User A is updated to the newest observation.

Then, 
- User A later calls `withdrawShutdownBalance` with a non-zero balance.
- The calculation for User A's share of the shutdown balance will use the newest observation, potentially giving them a larger share than if the observation had not been updated during the zero-balance call.

## Impact
The impact of this would cause unfair distribution of the shutdown balance, where some users receive more than their fair share at the expense of others.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/PrizePool.sol#L938-L950

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider moving the `_withdrawalObservations` update inside the `if (balance > 0)` check, so it only updates when tokens are actually withdrawn
