Abundant Flint Giraffe

medium

# The `canStartDraw` function may return wrong data, causing loss of funds

## Summary
The `canStartDraw` function in `DrawManager.sol` is used to check if a start draw auction can be completed. If the function were to return erroneous data, third-party bots and users may be under risk of a loss of funds.

## Vulnerability Detail
In order for the `startDraw` function to complete successfully, the caller is required to have made a call to Witnet in order to make a request for randomness. This request is not free as it requires a fee to be paid. 

Furthermore, as `startDraw` is intended to be called by third-party bots and users, looking to gain the reward of completing a draw auction, the `canStartDraw` will be used for them to make sure that making a request to Witnet and paying the necessary fee would be worthwhile. In other words, if they were to complete the request for randomness and after that their call to `startDraw` failed, they would have lost all of the funds used to pay for the Witnet fee.

This can occur when `canStartDraw` returns true instead of false, due to a mistake. Currently, there is an inaccuracy in the `canStartDraw` function, that may cause the function to return wrong data.
 
When `drawId == lastStartDrawAuction.drawId` it is made sure that:
```solidity
(rng.isRequestFailed(lastStartDrawAuction.rngRequestId) && _startDrawAuctions.length <= maxRetries)
```
The issue is that it also needs to be checked whether `block.number != rng.requestedAtBlock(lastRequest.rngRequestId)`, as if the two values are equal, `canStartDraw` would return true, but `startDraw` would revert:
```solidity
} else if (block.number == rng.requestedAtBlock(lastRequest.rngRequestId)) { // requests cannot be reused
  revert StaleRngRequest();
}
```

## Impact
This issue would cause third parties to make pointless requests for randomness, even when the `startDraw` function cannot be called, leading to a loss of funds, due to the fees paid to Witnet.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L277-L291

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Include the `block.number != rng.requestedAtBlock(lastRequest.rngRequestId)` check in the `canStartDraw` function:

```solidity
(
      // if we're on a new draw
      drawId != lastStartDrawAuction.drawId ||
      // OR we're on the same draw, but the request has failed and we haven't retried too many times
      (rng.isRequestFailed(lastStartDrawAuction.rngRequestId) && _startDrawAuctions.length <= maxRetries && block.number != 
      rng.requestedAtBlock(lastRequest.rngRequestId))
) 
```
