Abundant Flint Giraffe

medium

# The `canStartDraw` function may prevent auction draws from being started

## Summary
The `canStartDraw` function in `DrawManager.sol` is used to check if a start draw auction can be completed. If the function were to return erroneous data, draw auctions may be prevented from being started.

## Vulnerability Detail
In order for the `startDraw` function to complete successfully, the caller is required to have made a call to Witnet in order to make a request for randomness. This request is not free as it requires a fee to be paid.

Furthermore, as `startDraw` is intended to be called by third-party bots and users, looking to gain the reward of completing a draw auction, the `canStartDraw` will be used for them to make sure that making a request to Witnet and paying the necessary fee would be worthwhile. In other words, if they were to complete the request for randomness and after that their call to `startDraw` failed, they would have lost all of the funds used to pay for the Witnet fee. Thus, if `canStartDraw` returns false, they would not proceed to call `startDraw`.

The issue is that `canStartDraw` function may incorrectly return that a draw cannot be started, even when the `startDraw` function will not revert. Here is the inaccuracy:
The following check is made in `canStartDraw`:
```solidity
_computeElapsedTime(drawClosesAt, block.timestamp) <= auctionDuration // the draw hasn't expired
```
This validation is inaccurate as if the previous request for randomness has failed, the next draw auction starts when the failed draw auction closed, not when the draw to be awarded closed. This makes the following scenario possible:

1/ First start draw auction completion attempt is made (through the `startDraw` function), with a duration of 4 hours
2/ The randomness request fails and a third party intends to make a second attempt, 3 hours after the first auction closed
3/ The third-party calls `canStartDraw` to make sure that a draw can be started and they will not lose funds by paying for the Witnet randomness fee
4/ `canStartDraw` returns false as `_computeElapsedTime(drawClosesAt, block.timestamp)` returns the difference between the current timestamp and the beginning of the first auction, which would be 7 hours (> 6 hours)
5/ No third party calls the `startDraw` function, due to the risk of losing funds when paying for the randomness request fee

## Impact
Awarding certain draws will be skipped, due to the inaccuracy in `canStartDraw`.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L277-L291

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
If there has been a previous auction that did not complete due to a failed request for randomness, the validation above should compute the elapsed time between the end of the last auction and the current timestamp.
