Shambolic Red Gerbil

high

# `DrawManager.finishDraw()` might allocate more rewards than the reserve amount to draws

## Summary

The total rewards for all draws in `DrawManager.finishDraw()` can exceed the total reserve amount in the prize pool, making it impossible to award the current draw.

## Vulnerability Detail

In `DrawManager.finishDraw()`, the amount of rewards to allocate to each start draw auction and the finish draw auction is calculated and distributed as such:

[DrawManager.sol#L333-L352](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L333-L352)

```solidity
    uint256 availableRewards = _computeAvailableRewards();
    (uint256[] memory startDrawRewards, UD2x18[] memory startDrawFractions) = _computeStartDrawRewards(
      prizePool.drawClosesAt(startDrawAuction.drawId),
      availableRewards
    );
    (uint256 _finishDrawReward, UD2x18 finishFraction) = _computeFinishDrawReward(
      startDrawAuction.closedAt,
      block.timestamp,
      availableRewards
    );
    // ...

    for (uint256 i = 0; i < _startDrawAuctions.length; i++) {
      _reward(_startDrawAuctions[i].recipient, startDrawRewards[i]);
    }
    _reward(_rewardRecipient, _finishDrawReward);
```

Where:
- `availableRewards` is the total amount of reserves in the prize pool after the draw is awarded.
- `_computeStartDrawRewards()` simply calls `_computeStartDrawReward()` for each start draw auction.

Both `_computeStartDrawRewards()` and `_computeFinishDrawReward()` calculate the amount of rewards per draw duction using `RewardLib.fractionalReward()`:

[DrawManager.sol#L431-L437](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L431-L437)

```solidity
fraction = RewardLib.fractionalReward(
  _computeElapsedTime(_auctionOpenedAt, _auctionClosedAt),
  auctionDuration,
  _auctionTargetTimeFraction,
  lastFinishDrawFraction
);
reward = RewardLib.reward(fraction, _availableRewards);
```

Note that `RewardLib.fractionalReward()` returns a fraction between 0 and 1 inclusive, based on the formula described [here](https://dev.pooltogether.com/protocol/design/draw-auction#parabolic-fractional-dutch-auction-pfda). 

The issue is that the sum of `fraction` for all draw auctions can be greater than 1. As a result, the sum of `reward` (ie. sum of `fraction * availableRewards`) for all draw auctions might exceed `availableRewards`. For example:

- Assume there is one start draw auction and one finish draw auction.
- The start draw auction's `fraction` is 0.7.
- The finish draw auction's `fraction` is 0.6.
- The sum of rewards for both auctions is `0.7 * availableRewards + 0.6 * availableRewards`.
- Therefore, the sum of rewards is greater than `availableRewards`, which is the reserve amount.

When this occurs, `finishDraw()` will revert when transferring rewards from the reserve to recipients, as there will be insufficient funds in the reserve to distribute.

## Impact

In `finishDraw()`, the total amount of rewards for all auctions can exceed the total amount of available rewards (ie. the amount of reserves in the prize pool). When this occurs, `finishDraw()` will always revert and the current draw can never be awarded, causing:

- Loss of funds for draw bots that call `startDraw()`, since they will not receive their respective draw rewards.
- Loss of yield for users of vaults that deposited into the prize pool, since prizes are never awarded.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L333-L352

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L431-L437

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In `DrawManager.finishDraw()`, consider distributing rewards based on the total amount of reserves in the prize pool. For example, [`RewardLib.rewards()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/libraries/RewardLib.sol#L54-L76) could be used to allocate the reserve amount.