High Emerald Rook

high

# Potential Fund Lock in `Requestor` Contract on `zkSync Era` Blockchain Due to the Use of `transfer()` Method to Transfer ETH

## Summary
This report is based on this request in the README
>We're interested to know if there will be any issues deploying the code as-is to any of these chains, and whether their opcodes fully support our application.

The `Requestor` contract is designed to request random numbers from the Witnet Randomness Oracle and manage Ether balances. The contract includes functionality to request randomness, withdraw funds, and receive Ether.

The issue arises from the fact that zkSync Era is not Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) equivalent. zkSync Era uses dynamic gas metering, a deliberate design choice made by the team. This means any ETH transfers will cost more than 2300 gas, and any `.transfer()` function entered without an explicit gas stipend would fail.

## Vulnerability Detail
The issue lies in the `withdraw()` function in the `Requestor` contract, which uses the `transfer()` method for ETH transfer. The `transfer()` method has a 2300 gas limit, sufficient for simple transfers but not for complex logic in the receiving contract's `fallback()` or `receive()` functions. If `transfer()` fails, the transaction reverts.

While `transfer()` works on all other EVM-compatible chains except zkSync Era, [its gas calculations are different](https://docs.zksync.io/build/quick-start/best-practices.html#do-not-rely-on-evm-gas-logic). On zkSync Era, using `transfer()` exceeds the 2300 gas limit, even if there is no complex logic in the fallback functions, causing automatic transaction reversion due to its dynamic gas measurement method.

The zkSync team anticipated these scenarios and added warnings about the function directly in its compiler. Additionally, zkSync strictly recommends using `call()` instead of `send()`/`transfer()`. Please refer to the [zkSync documentation on best practices](https://docs.zksync.io/build/quick-start/best-practices.html#use-call-over-send-or-transfer).

The `Requestor` contract seems not optimized for zkSync, and there is a chance of potential lock of ETH in this contract.

Similar issues have occurred on zkSync before. For example:
1. [921 ETH Stuck in zkSync Era](https://medium.com/coinmonks/gemstoneido-contract-stuck-with-921-eth-an-analysis-of-why-transfer-does-not-work-on-zksync-era-d5a01807227d)
2. https://x.com/zksync/status/1644139364270878720

### Note
This issue is **NOT** related to future opcode gas repricing referred to in the `sherlock` rules:

>10. Issues assuming future opcode gas repricing are not considered to be of Medium/High severity.
Use of call vs transfer will be considered as a protocol design choice if there is no good reason why the call may consume more than 2300 gas without opcode repricings.

This is a special case on the zkSync blockchain, which uses more than 2300 gas to execute the `transfer()` method for ETH transfer.

## Impact
This issue prevents the requestor from withdrawing the pending balance in the `Requestor` contract after spending the cost for the `randomize()` function. This issue causes the ETH to be stuck in the contract.

## Code Snippet

```solidity
File: pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/Requestor.sol

    function withdraw(address payable _to) external onlyCreator returns (uint256) {
        uint balance = address(this).balance;
@-->    _to.transfer(balance);
        return balance;
    }
```
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/Requestor.sol#L36C1-L40C6

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Please use `call()` instead of `transfer()` in the `withdraw()` function. 
It's recommended to adhere to best practices like the checks-effects-interactions pattern and/or use reentrancy guard protection to secure your contracts against reentrancy attacks while using the `call()`.
