Festive Bone Cobra

medium

# `DrawManager::canStartDraw()` does not take into account failed requests, returning false when it should return true and harms bots

## Summary

The `DrawManager` rewards users based on a Parabolic Fractional Dutch Auction, in which time is critical and few seconds of delay may cost bots rewards. There is a bug in `DrawManager::canStartDraw()` as it returns false whenever `block.timestamp - prizePool.drawClosesAt(drawId)` is bigger than `auctionDuration`, not considering failed requests.

## Vulnerability Detail

Draws are handled by the `DrawManager`, which rewards users based on a Parabolic Fractional Dutch Auction, which increases rewards over time based on the curve in the [docs](https://dev.pooltogether.com/protocol/design/draw-auction#parabolic-fractional-dutch-auction-pfda). Since `DrawManager::startDraw()` is permissionless, it is critically to ensure bots can get accurate information to call it and earn rewards, otherwise the auction is unfair and some bots profit unfairly. From the docs:
> The draw auctions outlined in these docs leverage an incentivization mechanism to encourage competition among third parties to complete the draws in a timely manner while maximizing cost efficiency.

The duration of an auction is limited to `auctionDuration` only when the first RNG request succeeds. When the first one fails, the auction may be extended again by a duration of `auctionDuration`, since the time of the last draw request.

However, `DrawManager::canStartDraw()` does not take into account failed requests, and always computes the duration of the auction as `block.timestamp - prizePool.drawClosesAt(drawId)` and reverts if it is bigger than `auctionDuration`. This is incorrect as if there is any failed request, the actual duration limit is `block.timestamp - lastRequest.closedAt`, so `DrawManager::startDraw()` may still be called, but `DrawManager::canStartDraw()` returns false. 

`DrawManager::startDrawReward()` is called by bots to return the expected reward when starting the draw, but it will return 0 when it should return an amount different than 0 if there was a failed RNG request. Thus, most bots, if not all will be affected by this and will not call `DrawManager::startDraw()` when they should, leading to an incorrect increase of the reward that should not happen.

## Impact

The Parabolic Fractional Dutch Auction is flawed as it is not rendering the correct information to bots, tricking them into not starting a draw and increasing the reward fraction, which harms the reserve of the `PrizePool`.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L289
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L246
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L296-L298

## Tool used

Manual Review

Vscode

## Recommendation

If the last request has failed, the correct check is
`if (block.timestamp - lastRequest.closedAt > auctionDuration) revert AuctionExpired();`