Festive Bone Cobra

medium

# `PrizeVault::maxDeposit()` is not ERC4626 compliant as it does not consider rounding errors nor restricted receivers, nor `maxMint()`

## Summary

`PrizeVault::maxDeposit()` returns 0 if the total assets are smaller than the debt, to consider lossy deposits, but this will overestimate the amount that may be deposited if the yield vault incurs in rounding errors and the yield buffer is depleted. Additionally, some receivers are restricted, such as `address(0)` and `SPONSORSHIP_ADDRESS`, which are not considered. And finally, it does not check `maxMint()`.

The buffer may be depleted if the underlying yield vault registers losses.

## Vulnerability Detail

`EIP4626` [specifies](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4626#maxdeposit) that `maxDeposit()` must return the maximum amount of assets that may be deposited and underestimate if necessary, but this is not the case.
> MUST return the maximum amount of assets deposit would allow to be deposited for receiver and not cause a revert, which MUST NOT be higher than the actual maximum that would be accepted (it should underestimate if necessary).

Whenever a yield incurs rounding errors, `maxDeposit()` will overestimate the allowed deposit up to the `mintLimit()`, which violates EIP4626. Due to the fact that shares are minted at a 1:1 ratio when depositing/minting, this will always happen. Consider the following example:
```solidity
assets = 1000
debt = 1000
deposit 1000 assets
rounding error
assets = 1999
debt = 2000
// revert, as it is a lossy deposit
```
Thus, the maximum assets that may be deposited depend on the rounding error. However, `maxDeposit()` always returns `_mintLimit()`, a much bigger value, breaking EIP4626.

Additionally, when depositing/minting, shares are minted through the `TwabController`, which has mint addresses restrictions, namely [address(0)](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-twab-controller/src/TwabController.sol#L485) and the [SPONSORSHIP_ADDRESS](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-twab-controller/src/TwabController.sol#L549) and should return 0.

And finally, it should also call `maxMint()` and compare it against `maxDeposit()`, getting the minimum of the two.

## Impact

Non EIP4626 compliance in the `maxDeposit()` function, which always overestimates max deposits when the yield vault incurs rounding errors. And, it does not return 0 if the receiver is `address(0)` or the `SPONSORSHIP_ADDRESS`. Finally, it does not call `maxMint()` to check for more limits.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/PrizeVault.sol#L386

## Tool used

Manual Review

Vscode

## Recommendation

When the result from `_tryGetTotalPreciseAssets()` is equal to the `_totalDebt` and the buffer is depleted, the rounding error will make deposits revert, so in this case `maxDeposit()` should return 0. The fix is just checking for equality `if (!_success || _totalAssets <= _totalDebt) return 0;`. This is EIP4626 compliant because it is stated that `maxDeposit()` should underestimate the assets if necessary.
Additionally, when the receiver is `address(0)` or the `SPONSORSHIP_ADDRESS`, return 0.
And finally, also call `previewRedeem(maxMint())` inside a try catch and compare it against `maxDeposit()`, picking the minimum. 