Festive Bone Cobra

medium

# `Requestor` uses `to.transfer()` to withdraw the balance of the creator, but the creator may not be able to receive it

## Summary

`address.transfer()` only forwards 2300 gas, which can easily make gas sent revert if the target is a smart contract wallet. Thus, users participating in the draws (which is permissionless, and intends to allow anyone to participate, as in the [docs](https://dev.pooltogether.com/protocol/design/draw-auction)), may not be able to withdraw their funds after funding rng requests.

## Vulnerability Detail

The auction in `DrawManager` is started by calling `RngWitnet::startDraw()`, which requests a random number from `Requestor::randomize()` and then `DrawManager::startDraw()`.

Users starting the auction can choose to send funds to the `Requestor` directly or as `msg.value` in the `RngWitnet::startDraw()` call. Either way, funds are expected to be leftover in the `Requestor` contract, as it is not possible to predict the exact gas price and corresponding fee (the fee is based on the gas price) that will be used when the `RngWitnet::startDraw()` is called. Also, requests that have already been requested for the same block number have their `msg.value` refunded.

Lastly, the funds are always [sent](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/RngWitnet.sol#L99-L102) to the `msg.sender` in `requestors[msg.sender]`, corresponding to the `Requestor`, and `RngWitnet` is the creator, which has no way of specifying a different address to send the funds to.

Thus, as `PoolTogether` incentives the participation of anyone, some users using smart wallets may request randomness, paying the fee and leaving the excess in the `Requestor` contract, and then when they try to withdraw, it fails.

## Impact

Stuck tokens due to not being able to withdraw funds from the `Requestor`.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/Requestor.sol#L36-L40

## Tool used

Manual Review

Vscode

## Recommendation

Use `address.call{value: address(this).balance)}("")` to send the funds.