Strong Wooden Raven

medium

# When allowance is not equal to the assets in Prizevault, it causes a DOS.

## Summary
In the `depositwithpermit` function, we mitigate the risk of DOS by checking if the allowance is equal to the assets or not. However, what if there was an allowance before using the permit? Let's consider a scenario where the user had a nonzero allowance, and then they used `depositwithpermit` by providing a signature. If an attacker had already used the permit before the user, the allowance would not be equal to the assets. Consequently, we would end up using the permit again with the same signature, leading to a DOS situation.



## Vulnerability Detail
Scenario:

The user had an allowance equal to 1 wei before calling `depositwithpermit`.
The user then calls `depositwithpermit` with a signature using the _assets amount.
Before this transaction executes, the attacker extracts the signature and calls the permit beforehand. Now, in this case, our _assets will not be equal to the allowance because the allowance will be 1 wei more, leading us to execute the permit, which will cause a DOS.




## Impact
It will clearly cause a DOS when the user had some allowance before calling the `depositwithpermit` function.






## Code Snippet
```solidity
        if (_asset.allowance(_owner, address(this)) != _assets) {
            IERC20Permit(address(_asset)).permit(
                _owner,
                address(this),
                _assets,
                _deadline,
                _v,
                _r,
                _s
            );
        }
```
## References
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/PrizeVault.sol#L530  

## Tool used
Manual Review


## Recommendation
We should use `<` instead of `!=` like this:
```solidity
        if (_asset.allowance(_owner, address(this)) < _assets) {
            IERC20Permit(address(_asset)).permit(
                _owner,
                address(this),
                _assets,
                _deadline,
                _v,
                _r,
                _s
            );
        }
```