Suave Porcelain Owl

medium

# Functions Missing Parameters

## Summary
The function `maxDeposit` is missing receiver address parameter. This will cause an error. Which means there will be no zero returns if any deposit would result in a loss of assets and if the total assets cannot be determined. The max deposit will not account for the latent balance. Function `maxMint` will not return the value as it calls the function `maxDeposit` and will not return 0 if any deposit would result in a loss of assets. This goes for the `transferTokensOut` missing the sender address parameter and `verifyTokensIn` missing the calldata bytes parameter, `targetOf` missing address,


## Vulnerability Detail
The function `maxDeposit` will return an error and will not accomplish its task. There is no data to take in, process and return because there is no receiver parameter.
## Impact
The receiver will not be able to view the information returned by `maxDeposit` function.
## Code Snippet
    function maxDeposit(address /* receiver */) public view returns (uint256) {
        uint256 _totalDebt = totalDebt();
        (bool _success, uint256 _totalAssets) = _tryGetTotalPreciseAssets();
        if (!_success || _totalAssets < _totalDebt) return 0;

        uint256 _latentBalance = _asset.balanceOf(address(this));
        uint256 _maxYieldVaultDeposit = yieldVault.maxDeposit(address(this));
        if (_latentBalance >= _maxYieldVaultDeposit) {
            return 0;
        } else {
            // the vault will never mint more than 1 share per asset, so no need to convert mint limit to assets
            uint256 _depositLimit = _mintLimit(_totalDebt);
            uint256 _maxDeposit;
            unchecked {
                _maxDeposit = _maxYieldVaultDeposit - _latentBalance;
            }
            return _depositLimit < _maxDeposit ? _depositLimit : _maxDeposit;
        }
    }

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/PrizeVault.sol#L383-L401
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/PrizeVault.sol#L714-L720
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Add receiver address or remove the address data type because it is not used as an argument within the function.