Massive Foggy Ape

medium

# Griefing Attack: requests[requestId] Overflow Due to Large Request Volume and Short Block Time.

## Summary
Each request from `witnet` is stored in `requests` mapping where the `requestId` type is uint32. it will overflow and return wrong block for each requester.

## Vulnerability Detail
The `witnet` contract stores all the requests in following request mapping:
```solidity
    mapping(uint32 requestId => uint256 lockBlock) public requests;
```
This request id got incremented for each new request despite the fact that if the request is made more the once in a same block.
```solidity
2024-05-pooltogether/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/RngWitnet.sol:85
85:     function requestRandomNumber(uint256 rngPaymentAmount) public payable returns (uint32 requestId, uint256 lockBlock, uint256 cost) {
86:         Requestor requestor = getRequestor(msg.sender);
87:         unchecked {
88:             requestId = ++lastRequestId; // @audit-issue : will overflow
89:             lockBlock = block.number;
90:         }
91:         requests[requestId] = lockBlock;
92:         cost = requestor.randomize{value: msg.value}(rngPaymentAmount, witnetRandomness);
93: 
94:         emit RandomNumberRequested(requestId, msg.sender, rngPaymentAmount, cost);
95:     }
96: 
```
As mentioned in the ReadMe that these contract will also be deployed on `Linea` chain which block time is `2 sec`. Keeping all these things in mind Following case would occur :

The user (Grief)  will place the `RNG` request after first call in this way `witnet` will not charge any fee from users. The user can place multiple transaction As we know that transaction cost is very cheaper on `Linea` cost of approve call is `$0.02` and block time 2 sec.
Arbitrum : 2 sec time.
Optimism : 2 sec time.
let assume that if user place 2 request per block after a first call has been already made on the given block.
The time it take to overflow can be calculated as Follows:
The maximum value of a uint32 (unsigned 32-bit integer) is $2^{32} −1 = 4,294,967,2952 32−1 = 4,294,967,295$.

Now assume 3 increments per block:

 $TotalBlock=4,294,967,295/ 3 ≈1,431,655,765$
Total time in seconds Linea:
$ 1,431,655,765×2=2,863,311,530 seconds$
Now let convert these seconds in to days:
$ 2,863,311,530/ 60 × 60 ×24 ≈ 33,140.87$
Total years required to overflow:
$Total years = 33,140.87/365≈90.78 years

Keep in mind that these calculation are only in case of single user Grief attack.  but the

Due to this overflow all the subsequent block number will be stored against `0` request id.
The cost is not that High as the impact of this attacks that why I reported this issue.
## Impact
The Request id for block will return wrong data to the draw manager which will impact the draw results.

## Code Snippet
[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/RngWitnet.sol#L85](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/RngWitnet.sol#L85)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
change the type of `requestId` to `uint256`:
```solidity
    mapping(uint256requestId => uint256 lockBlock) public requests;
```

