Creamy Ginger Salamander

high

# A malicious user can set the implementation of their hook to an EOA, so that claimers tx always reverts regardless of try/catch block

## Summary
A malicious user can set the implementation of their hook to an EOA, so that claimers tx always reverts regardless of try/catch block

## Vulnerability Detail
The `setHooks` function in Vault.sol (inherited from Claimable.sol) allows users to set arbitrary hooks that claimer users/bots must call before and/or after claiming the prize for the user.

If we take a look at `Clamer.claimPrizes`, this is the function that users/bots will call to claim prizes for users. 

```solidity
function claimPrizes(
    IClaimable _vault,
    uint8 _tier,
    address[] calldata _winners,
    uint32[][] calldata _prizeIndices,
    address _feeRecipient,
    uint256 _minFeePerClaim
  ) external returns
  ...
  ...
  ...
```

We can clearly see that the function takes in a list of winners to claim prizes for. This is important and encouraged by the protocol. If this feature was not present, the claimers would lose a lot of money to gas from sending a lot of transactions, this would eat into their profits and could even make it unprofitable leading to prizes not being claimed for users in a timely manner.

The protocol also states on the front page of the V5 docs 

>Users automatically receive their prizes. No claim needed! The tokens will be transferred to their wallets

Therefore the role that claimers play is huge in V5, if they do not claim the winner's prize in a timely manner in the allotted time, the winner will lose the prize.

**The vulnerability** is that a malicious user can set the implementation of the hook to an EOA. This will cause the claimer's call to `Clamer.claimPrizes` to revert even though the hook is called in a try/catch block.

`Clamer.claimPrizes` ==> `_claim` has a try catch block, which the protocol implemented to prevent such an attack.

```solidity
function _claim(
    IClaimable _vault,
    uint8 _tier,
    address[] calldata _winners,
    uint32[][] calldata _prizeIndices,
    address _feeRecipient,
    uint96 _feePerClaim
  ) internal returns (uint256) {
    uint256 actualClaimCount;
    uint256 prizeIndicesLength;

    // `_winners.length` is not cached cause via-ir would need to be used
    for (uint256 w = 0; w < _winners.length; w++) {
      prizeIndicesLength = _prizeIndices[w].length;
      for (uint256 p = 0; p < prizeIndicesLength; p++) {
        try
          _vault.claimPrize(_winners[w], _tier, _prizeIndices[w][p], _feePerClaim, _feeRecipient)
        returns (uint256 /* prizeSize */) {
          actualClaimCount++;
        } catch (bytes memory reason) {
          emit ClaimError(_vault, _tier, _winners[w], _prizeIndices[w][p], reason);
        }
      }
    }

    return actualClaimCount;
  }
```

Lets now take a look at `PrizeVault.claimPrize` 

```solidity
function claimPrize(
        address _winner,
        uint8 _tier,
        uint32 _prizeIndex,
        uint96 _reward,
        address _rewardRecipient
    ) external onlyClaimer returns (uint256) {
        address _prizeRecipient;
        bytes memory _hookData;

        if (_hooks[_winner].useBeforeClaimPrize) {
            (_prizeRecipient, _hookData) = _hooks[_winner].implementation.beforeClaimPrize{ gas: HOOK_GAS }( 
                _winner,
                _tier,
                _prizeIndex,
                _reward,
                _rewardRecipient
            );
        } else {
            _prizeRecipient = _winner;
        }
        ...
        ...
        ...
```

If a malicious user set the `implementation` to an EOA then regardless of the try/catch block the whole Tx will revert.

Another point to consider is that a malicious user can frontrun a claimer's Tx by setting a malicious hook

This has a variety of impacts that is discussed in the next section.

## Impact
One of they key features of poolTogether V5 is that winners automatically receive their prizes. Evidence of this is on the front page of the [PoolTogetherV5 docs](https://dev.pooltogether.com/protocol/design/)
>Users automatically receive their prizes. No claim needed! The tokens will be transferred to their wallets

If a few malicious users set the implementation to an EOA the claimers Tx will revert much more often. ( a single malicious user can do this by using sybils )

If claimers are continuously getting their tx reverted because of malicious hooks they will be dis-incentivized from continuing to offer themselves to claim the prizes on behalf of the users, this will lead to users not receiving their prizes.



## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/1aa1b8c028b659585e4c7a6b9b652fb075f86db3/pt-v5-vault/src/abstract/Claimable.sol#L76-L87

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Needs a more complex solution to prevent such an attack
