Pet Tin Griffin

high

# safeTransfer() associated with stEth often results in 1-2 wei lesser of assets transfer from yieldVault, leading to easy DoS of PrizeVault._withdraw()

## Summary
The `PrizeVault` contract's `_withdraw` function can cause reverts due to rounding errors when handling `stETH`. This issue arises from the discrepancy between the expected and actual transferred amounts during `yieldVault.redeem()`, leading to insufficient balance for the subsequent `_asset.safeTransfer()`.

## Vulnerability Detail
`PrizeVault._withdraw()` uses `yieldVault.redeem()` to withdraw assets. Nevertheless, `stEth` balances are tracked using shares; and hence, it is a known issue that due to rounding error, the [transferred](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC20/extensions/ERC4626.sol#L274) shares from `yieldVault` may be 1-2 wei less than the expected `_assets - _latentAssets` (more info may be referenced on [Lido's Doc](https://docs.lido.fi/guides/lido-tokens-integration-guide/#1-2-wei-corner-case)). As a result, when eventually `_asset.safeTransfer()` is triggered, it may revert due to an insufficient balance resulting from this rounding error.

This problem would easily persist even though `yieldVault.redeem()` is implemented by a 3rd party protocol that is a trustworthy 4626 compliant yield source. Depositing stETH in PrizeVault will work due to the presence of latent balance; likewise, minting/burning of yield shares work good (ignorant of this type of rounding) since the default rounding directions on previewWithdraw (ceil) and previewRedeem (floor) are not always mandated to be EIP compliant anyway. It's withdrawing from the PrizeVault that will eventually be running into DoS.  

## Impact
The vulnerability can cause the contract to revert withdrawals, potentially disrupting user interactions and affecting the contract's reliability. This can lead to significant issues, especially in scenarios where timely withdrawals are crucial.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/PrizeVault.sol#L1051-L1067

```solidity
function _withdraw(address _receiver, uint256 _assets) internal {
    uint256 _latentAssets = _asset.balanceOf(address(this));
    if (_assets > _latentAssets) {
        uint256 _yieldVaultShares = yieldVault.previewWithdraw(_assets - _latentAssets);
        yieldVault.redeem(_yieldVaultShares, address(this), address(this));
    }
    if (_receiver != address(this)) {
        _asset.safeTransfer(_receiver, _assets);
    }
}
```
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
To mitigate this issue, maintain a small buffer (e.g., 5 wei) of `_latentAssets` in the contract. This buffer would help cover potential rounding discrepancies, ensuring sufficient balance for `_asset.safeTransfer()` to succeed.
