Festive Bone Cobra

high

# `Claimer::claimPrizes()` fee is incorrect and incurs very signficant costs whenever it is frontrunned

## Summary

`Claimer::claimPrizes()` incorrectly computes the fee based on the number of prizes to claim, not considering if any of the indices were already claimed and calls `Vault::claimPrize()`, which spends up to a little more than `150_000` gas per claim that receives no fee.

## Vulnerability Detail

`Claimer::claimPrizes()` computes the fee based on the auction mechanism and then divides the total fee by the number of prize claims. However, it fails to account for indices that were already claimed, dividing the fee by all indices. This will severely cut fees for claimers that were frontrunned in any amount of indices of prizes claimed. At the end of `Claimer::_computeFeePerClaim()`, it can be seen how the fee is divided by `_claimCount`:
```solidity
function _computeFeePerClaim(
  uint8 _tier,
  uint256 _claimCount,
  uint256 _claimedCount
) internal view returns (uint256) {
  ...
  return fee / _claimCount;
}
```
And `_claimCount` is `_countClaims(_winners, _prizeIndices)`, which sums all prizes, without considering that some of them were already claimed.

Additionally, by not checking the prizes that were already claimed, it still tries to claim in the try/catch statement in `Claimer::_claim()`
```solidity
for (uint256 w = 0; w < _winners.length; w++) {
  prizeIndicesLength = _prizeIndices[w].length;
  for (uint256 p = 0; p < prizeIndicesLength; p++) {
    try
      _vault.claimPrize(_winners[w], _tier, _prizeIndices[w][p], _feePerClaim, _feeRecipient)
    returns (uint256 /* prizeSize */) {
      actualClaimCount++;
    } catch (bytes memory reason) {
      emit ClaimError(_vault, _tier, _winners[w], _prizeIndices[w][p], reason);
    }
  }
}
```
It calls `Vault.claimPrize()` regardless, which may trigger a hook in `Claimable`, if `_hooks[_winner].useBeforeClaimPrize` is set to true for this winner, and may spend up to `150k` gas. Thus, if there are 100 winners whose prize has been claimed, it will spend approximately `15_000_000` total gas, which on Ethereum for example is very expensive (`15_000_000 * 20*10^(-9) == 0.3` ETH). If it was checked beforehand if the prize has been already claimed, it would cost just a storage read 100 times by calling [PrizePool::wasClaimed()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/PrizePool.sol#L727), something like `2600*100 = 260000` gas, or `260_000 * 20*10^(-9) = 0.00026` ETH, 1150 times less.

## Impact

Tremendous fee and gas costs if claimer bots are frontrunned.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-claimer/src/Claimer.sol#L113
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-claimer/src/Claimer.sol#L162

## Tool used

Manual Review

Vscode

## Recommendation

For each index, fetch [PrizePool::wasClaimed()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/PrizePool.sol#L727) and use the prizes that were not claimed to calculate the claim count. Additionally, skip calling `Vault::claimPrize()` for prizes that were claimed.