Crazy Linen Walrus

medium

# ClaimPrize hooks gas limit can be violated using a gas bomb, making `claimPrizes` revert

## Summary
`beforeClaimPrize` and `afterClaimPrize` hooks calls execution receive a finite amount of gas dicated by the state variable `HOOK_GAS` which is set to 150k.
In this report we will show that it is possible for a hook to bypass that limit and consume more gas than `HOOK_GAS`, which can lead in worst case, to not letting enough gas to the claimer to complete its array of claims.
The attack is based on the [unbounded return data](https://github.com/kadenzipfel/smart-contract-vulnerabilities/blob/master/vulnerabilities/unbounded-return-data.md) attack vector, also [explained here](https://twitter.com/0xkarmacoma/status/1763746082537017725) which combine the use of assembly and returned value (or revert message) to force caller to expand memory.
We will then provide a simple remediation against it.

## Vulnerability Detail
Claimers are users/bots incentivized to claim prize on behalf of winners. They get a portion of the prize value as a reward for doing it. 
Claimers [can claim multiple prizes](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether//blob/main/pt-v5-claimer/src/Claimer.sol#L93) at once using the `claimPrizes` function from the `Claimer` contract.
These prizes are then called [each one after the other](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether//blob/main/pt-v5-claimer/src/Claimer.sol#L158-L169) in a loop inside a try/catch structure.
If a fail occur during a claim, the try/catch simply emit an event, and claim the next prize.

Winners are allowed to set-up two hooks that will be executed before and after the prize claim, each one receiving HOOK_GAS amount of gas to spend for the call. This allow claimers to know how much gas will be spent for the call to be executed and configure in an optimal way their call.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether//blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/abstract/Claimable.sol#L76-L121
```solidity
File: pt-v5-vault/src/abstract/Claimable.sol
076:     function claimPrize(
...:           /* claimPrize parameters */
082:     ) external onlyClaimer returns (uint256) {
083:         address _prizeRecipient;
084:         bytes memory _hookData;
085: 
086:         if (_hooks[_winner].useBeforeClaimPrize) {
087:             (_prizeRecipient, _hookData) = _hooks[_winner].implementation.beforeClaimPrize{ gas: HOOK_GAS }(
...:           /* beforeClaimPrize parameters */
093:             );
...:
...:           /* some code ... */
...:
100:         uint256 _prizeTotal = prizePool.claimPrize(        
...:           /* claimPrize parameters */

107:         );
108: 
109:         if (_hooks[_winner].useAfterClaimPrize) {
110:             _hooks[_winner].implementation.afterClaimPrize{ gas: HOOK_GAS }(
...:           /* afterClaimPrize parameters */
117:             );
118:         }
119: 
120:         return _prizeTotal;
121:     }
```

But using a gas bomb function as the one shared in the `Summary` section, it is possible to craft hooks that will spend more gas than the configured limit.
If a hook consume almost all available gas for the complete execution of the entire claim array, claimers might see their execution run out of gas, preventing them to finish execute the claiming loop, which can unexpectedely make the whole claimPrizes call revert, which means claimer will have claimed no prize.

## Impact
By disrupting the claiming process and making the whole `claimPrizes` call revert, the claimer will not earn any reward.

The cost of that attack is low, as it simply require the attacker to deploy a gas bomb contract once and set it as a hook.

To increase the anoyance of the attack, the attacker could target a specific pool, participating to a prize vault with multiple accounts, all of them having that malicious prize hook pointing to the same gas bomb contract, increasing even more the gas bomb effect if multiple of these account win prizes (which can be pretty frequent for lower tiers [as shown in the dashboard](https://analytics.cabana.fi/optimism))
The funds used to fund those accounts are not lost, and can make him earn prizes. He can even address-check the hook call, and "desactivate" the gas bomb for his bot.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether//blob/main/pt-v5-vault/src/abstract/Claimable.sol#L76-L121
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether//blob/main/pt-v5-claimer/src/Claimer.sol#L93
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether//blob/main/pt-v5-claimer/src/Claimer.sol#L158-L169

## Tool used
Manual review

## Recommendation
Use the [ExcessivelySafeCall](https://github.com/nomad-xyz/ExcessivelySafeCall) library or the [LowLevelHelpers](https://github.com/ProjectOpenSea/seaport-core/blob/d4e8c74adc472b311ab64b5c9f9757b5bba57a15/src/lib/LowLevelHelpers.sol#L26) method used [by Seaport](https://twitter.com/z0age/status/1763936575862522114)