Plain Rainbow Aphid

high

# Users can know the random number before a draw closes

## Summary

Users can know the random number before a draw closes by directly calling `RngWitnet.randomNumber()`
```solidity
   /// @notice Gets the random number produced by the 3rd-party service
    /// @param _requestId The ID of the request used to get the results of the RNG service
    /// @return randomNum The random number
    function randomNumber(uint32 _requestId) onlyValidRequest(_requestId) external view returns (uint256) {    
        return uint256(witnetRandomness.fetchRandomnessAfter(requests[_requestId]));//@audit-issue
    }
```

## Vulnerability Detail

When a draw is started by calling either `DrawManager.startDraw()` or `RngWitnet.startDraw()`, `RngWitnet.requestRandomNumber()` is called to request a random number from the Witnet Randomness Oracle.

```solidity
function requestRandomNumber(uint256 rngPaymentAmount) public payable returns (uint32 requestId, uint256 lockBlock, uint256 cost) {
        Requestor requestor = getRequestor(msg.sender);
        unchecked {
            requestId = ++lastRequestId;
            lockBlock = block.number;
        }
        requests[requestId] = lockBlock;
        cost = requestor.randomize{value: msg.value}(rngPaymentAmount, witnetRandomness);

        emit RandomNumberRequested(requestId, msg.sender, rngPaymentAmount, cost);
    }

```

Now looking at the above snippet `lastRequestId` is used as the `requestId`  and incremented, so users can tell the `requestId` by -1 from `lastRequestId` after a randomization request.

Users can use the `requestId` to directly call `RngWitnet.randomNumber()` to get the random number generated by the Witnet Randomness Oracle 5 -10 mins after the draw just began.

The issue here now is that its very bad if a user gets to know the random number generated by the Witnet Randomness Oracle before the draw closes as they could modify their TWAB or contributions to the prize pool in a way that ensures they win prizes.


According to witnet's Docs,  randomization request takes 5-10 minutes to complete and the draw auction won't be ending in 10 minutes so users have ample time to manipulate their TWAB and contributions to the prize pool in a way that ensures they win prizes.


https://docs.witnet.io/smart-contracts/witnet-randomness-oracle/code-examples#range-of-the-random-numbers

check the last sentence in the gray box in the link above... you'll see it clearly states that it takes 5 -10 mins for a randomization request to complete. see it below too
-------
_Take into account that this example implements an asynchronous workflow — calling fetchRandomNumber() right after requestRandomNumber() will most likely cause the transaction to revert. Please allow 5-10 minutes for the randomization request to complete._

-------


## Impact
 Users can know the random number before a draw closes and use that info to modify their TWAB or contributions to the prize pool in a way that ensures they win prizes.


## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-rng-witnet/src/RngWitnet.sol#L123

## Tool used

Manual Review


## Recommendation

Add access control to `RngWitnet.randomNumber()`
