Formal Tiger Gazelle

medium

# After the user calls startDraw, they are unable to obtain the reward.

## Summary

After calling `finishDraw`, it is still possible to call `startDraw`, causing the user to be unable to obtain the reward.

## Vulnerability Detail

`startDraw` does not check whether `finishDraw` has already been called. Therefore, if a user calls `startDraw` after calling `finishDraw`, the user will be unable to obtain the deserved reward.

Additionally, if the user tries to call `finishDraw` again, it will fail because after the first call to `finishDraw`, `awardDraw` sets the `_lastAwardedDrawId` in the `prizePool` to the return value of `prizePool.getDrawIdToAward`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/abstract/TieredLiquidityDistributor.sol#L249

When called the second time, `_lastAwardedDrawId` will be equal to the current `drawId`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/PrizePool.sol#L460

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/PrizePool.sol#L467

Then, when calling `__awardDraw`, it first calls `getTotalContributedBetween`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/PrizePool.sol#L479

`getTotalContributedBetween` calls `getDisbursedBetween`. Since the parameters passed before calling `getTotalContributedBetween` will set `lastAwardedDrawId_ + 1`, it will trigger the following condition.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-prize-pool/src/libraries/DrawAccumulatorLib.sol#L147-L148

Therefore, if an attacker calls `finishDraw` before a user calls `startDraw`, the user will no longer be able to call the `finishDraw` function, resulting in the loss of their deserved reward amount.

For example:

After the attacker calls `startDraw`, they notice that User A is about to call `startDraw`. The attacker then front-runs the transaction and executes `finishDraw` first. At this point, User A thinks that after executing `startDraw`, they will receive a reward. However, when User A calls `finishDraw`, it will revert, causing User A to lose their reward.
## Impact

The user will lose the reward fee they deserve

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-pooltogether/blob/main/pt-v5-draw-manager/src/DrawManager.sol#L219-L273

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

It should check whether the drawId has already completed the `finishDraw` operation.